# Core genome multilocus sequence typing development for Haemophilus influenzae
This repository contains in-house scripts (in R and Python programming language) used for data analyses in the "Development and Implementation 1 of a Core Genome Multilocus Sequence Typing (cgMLST) scheme for Haemophilus influenzae" manuscript.

## Abstract
Haemophilus influenzae is part of the human nasopharyngeal microbiota and a pathogen causing invasive disease. The extensive genetic diversity observed in H. influenzae necessitates discriminatory analytical approaches to evaluate its population structure. This study developed a core genome MLST (cgMLST) scheme for H. influenzae using pangenome analysis tools and validated the cgMLST scheme using datasets consisting of complete reference genomes (N=14) and high-quality draft H. influenzae genomes (N=2,297). The draft genome dataset was divided into a development (N=921) and a validation dataset (N=1,376). The development dataset was used to identify potential core genes with the validation dataset used to refine the final core gene list to ensure the reliability of the proposed cgMLST scheme. Functional classifications were made for all resulting core genes. Phylogenetic analyses were performed using both allelic profiles and nucleotide sequence alignments of the core genome to test congruence, as assessed by Spearman’s correlation and Ordinary Least Square linear regression tests. Preliminary analyses using the development dataset identified 1,067 core genes, which were refined to 1,037 with the validation dataset. More than 70% of core genes were predicted to encode proteins essential for metabolism or genetic information processing. Phylogenetic and statistical analyses indicated that the core genome allelic profile accurately represented phylogenetic relatedness among the isolates (R2 = 0.945). We used this cgMLST scheme to define a high-resolution population structure for H. influenzae, which enhances the genomic analysis of this clinically relevant human pathogen.

## Citation
MA Krisna, KA Jolley, W  Monteith, A Boubour, RL Hamers, AB Brueggemann, OB Harrison, MCJ Maiden. [Development and Implementation of a Core Genome Multilocus Sequence Typing (cgMLST) scheme for Haemophilus influenzae](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.04.15.589521v1). bioRxiv 2024.04.15.589521 <br />
MA Krisna, W Monteith, OB Harrison, MCJ Maiden. Core Genome Multilocous Sequence Typing Development Workflow. protocols.io
https://protocols.io/view/core-genome-multilocous-sequence-typing-developmen-cxp3xmqn
